---
layout: post
ref: transition
title:  "Transition"
keywords: "transition,life"
date: 2016-10-30
tags: [blog,life,transition]
lang: eng
comments: true
icon: fa-bookmark-o
---

{% include image.html url="transition/lady.jpg" caption="During one of my Burning Man workshops I pulled this card, which reflects the current stage in my life" %}

Two months ago I quit my job, sold and gave away all of my property
and went on a spiritual journey around the world. Is it just another
midlife crisis, or is there something deeper behind such a radical
change?


How could it come about that a successful computer scientist with a
relaxed and seemingly enjoyable life in Washington, DC would end up as
a homeless person whose all possessions fit into just carry-on
luggage?


And, finally, how was it possible for an intellectual who prided
himself on his extensive rare book collection spanning multiple
floor-to-ceiling bookcases to donate all of his books and become a
digital nomad?


It is all about listening.


Listening to that deep voice inside that does not come from the
rational side of ourselves. For the rational side always knows how we
are supposed to live. It plans, it controls, it arranges for things to
happen. It has clear priorities and schedules. For the rational side,
life is mostly a to-do-list, a collection of problems to be solved.
And so we move, from one problem to another, from everyday work to
predictable vacations, from being in the marketplace to a programmed
retirement.


What about the non-rational side? What does it want? It wants only one
thing: truth. To be true to ourselves, our potential, our original
spark of being that cannot be logically defined and circumscribed. I
may not be able to articulate exactly what the inner voice is telling
me, but I can feel the direction where it points to. I can listen and
hear the rustle in the wind that leads me in the direction of change.


The change is not always easy. In many cases, it is a painful
transition, perhaps even a rebirth, when the old world crumbles, and
we wait patiently at the threshold of a new life. Will it ever come?
Or is the transition just a misguided attempt at running away from
ourselves? Trying to escape our inner daemons by re-arranging
circumstances of our lives?


I don't know.


But if I don't follow it, if I don't honor the call for the the
journey, I will never know. The only way to be true to myself is to
"jump now and think later", follow my intuition, trust the mystery of
life and gifts that await me on the journey.


The journey is just beginning...



